Codeofconduct update (#52)
epiverse-trace/.github: CODE_OF_CONDUCT_en.md

We respect the identities and lived experiences of our members and are committed to making our spaces accessible, inclusive, and welcoming. Our goal is to foster an environment where everyone feels encouraged to contribute, ask questions, and engage without fear of judgment or disrespect. We take action against unacceptable behaviors, reinforcing that **no one’s reputation is more important than the safety of our community.**

We recognize that power imbalances exist in all group spaces, including our own. We actively work to acknowledge and minimize their harmful effects.

We know that we will not always get everything right, and we encourage community members to reach out when we fall short. We are committed to learning, adapting, and growing together. 

## Expected Behavior

To create a positive and respectful environment, all community members are expected to:

- Be considerate in speech and actions, acknowledging and respecting boundaries.  

> - Remembering that people live lives and navigate challenges beyond the confines of the community. Practicing empathy, kindness and respect, always.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remember that people live lives and navigate challenges beyond the confines of the community. Practicing empathy, kindness and respect, always.  
```

- Engage constructively while asking questions or discussing differing viewpoints.  
- Respect consent in all interactions, including physical and virtual communications.  

> - Resolving disagreements and differing views constructively by focusing on helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resolve disagreements and differing views constructively by focusing on helping to resolve issues and learning from mistakes.  
```

**We do not tolerate harassment in any form.** Adherence to our Code of Conduct requires refraining from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech, including but not limited to:

Harassment and/or discrimination:

* Offensive comments or actions related to gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, disability, appearance, nationality, religion, socioeconomic status, or technology choices.  
* Deliberate misgendering or use of ‘dead’ names.  
* Use of sexual or discriminatory imagery, comments, or jokes.  
* Unwanted sexual attention or repeated, inappropriate requests for contact.

Abuse, intimidation and threats:

* Stalking, persistent unwanted communication, or tracking online activity.  
* Threats of violence, self-harm encouragement, or incitement to harm others.  
* Disrupting discussions, events, or online conversations.  
* Non-consensual sharing of private messages or recordings.

Unwanted contact and privacy violations:

* Unwanted photography, recording, or personal information sharing.  
* Inappropriate physical or simulated contact (e.g., non-consensual touching, emojis).  
* Pressuring or assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy.

> Our priorities in enforcement  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our priorities in enforcement  

```

Reviewer: I think this is supposed to be a title?

Our primary commitment is to ensure the safety and inclusion of marginalized individuals. We recognize that discussions about equity and inclusion can sometimes feel uncomfortable, but we will not prioritize the comfort of those in privileged positions over the well-being of those facing discrimination or exclusion.

This means that we will not take action on complaints that:

* Claim so-called "reverse" discrimination (e.g., “reverse racism” or “reverse sexism”), as systemic inequalities do not operate in reverse.  
* Object to reasonable personal boundaries set by community members, such as requests to end a conversation or disengage.  
* Focus on the tone of someone’s communication rather than the substance of their message.  
* Criticize or challenge someone for speaking up about discrimination, exclusion, or oppressive behavior.

## Reporting and enforcement

> The Epiverse Code of Conduct Committee includes Diana Fajardo Pulido (Epiverse Community Engagement and Involvement Manager), Karim Mané (Epiverse Research Software Engineer), Sebastian Funk (Epiverse lead at LSHTM) <!-- and xxx (External Committee Member). -->

Reviewer: Dangling comment that needs to be removed?
```suggestion
The Epiverse Code of Conduct Committee includes Diana Fajardo Pulido (Epiverse Community Engagement and Involvement Manager), Karim Mané (Epiverse Research Software Engineer), Sebastian Funk (Epiverse lead at LSHTM) 
```

Author: Thanks James. I will edit before merging as I am waiting for the external committee member to reply.

### How to report a violation

If you experience or witness behavior that violates this Code of Conduct, or if you have concerns about someone’s safety, you can report it through:  
**Email:** Send a report to [conduct@epiverse.org](mailto:conduct@epiverse.org)   
**In-person Events:** Contact any member of the Code of Conduct Committee or designated event moderators. 
<!-- **Online Form:** Submit a confidential report \[link to form\]. --> 

> Reports can be submitted anonymously or with identifying details. All reports will be treated confidentially and with care for the reporter’s safety. Upon submitting your report, you will receive a copy of your responses via email. You should receive a separate acknowledgement of receipt via email from the Code of Conduct Committee within 48 hours on weekdays, or within 72 hours for an event that takes place on a weekend.

Reviewer: Is this currently possible given that the report will be made to an email from an email? Maybe rather use a form that allows the user to not send their email?

### Enforcement process

The Code of Conduct Committee will review the report and, if necessary, recuse members with conflicts of interest. The committee will investigate the incident promptly, considering all perspectives and evidence. 

Possible actions include:

* Verbal or written warnings.  
* Temporary or permanent bans from specific spaces or events.  

> * In the event that any violations exist in social media, online forums or Github repositories information will be removed.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If any violations are found on social media, online forums, or Github repositories, the relevant information will be removed.  
```

> * We aim to implement resolutions as quickly as possible while maintaining transparency and fairness.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Quickly implement resolutions while maintaining transparency and fairness.
```

If you anticipate concerns about attending an event or joining a community space, we can take steps to ensure your safety, including:

* Preparing moderators or event staff to address potential conflicts.  
* Restricting attendance of specific individuals.  
* Providing escorts or onsite contacts for immediate assistance.

## Community feedback and revision process

We conduct an annual review of this Code of Conduct with input from all members of Epiverse and external advisors to ensure its relevance and effectiveness. Updates to the Code of Conduct will be announced publicly and archived for community reference. To uphold accountability while protecting privacy, we publish anonymized summaries of reported incidents and resolutions in a brief annual report. We welcome suggestions from other stakeholders for improving this Code of Conduct. Please email [conduct@epiverse.org](mailto:conduct@epiverse.org) to share your feedback. 

## Acknowledgments

> This Code of Conduct builds upon the foundations of the previous version, incorporating valuable insights from our community. It has been reviewed and refined through a collaborative process involving Epiverse team members [Hugo Gruson](https://github.com/Bisaloo), [Chris Hartgerink](https://github.com/chartgerink), [Karim Mane](https://github.com/Karim-Mane), [Joshua Lambert](https://github.com/joshwlambert), [Andree Valle-Campos](https://github.com/avallecam) and [Diana Fajardo Pulido](https://github.com/DianaClemencia/DianaClemencia) <!-- and external advisors \[insert names of external advisors\] to ensure it remains inclusive, clear, and effective. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Code of Conduct builds upon the foundations of the previous version, incorporating valuable insights from our community. It has been reviewed and refined through a collaborative process involving Epiverse team members [Hugo Gruson](https://github.com/Bisaloo), [Chris Hartgerink](https://github.com/chartgerink), [Karim Mane](https://github.com/Karim-Mane), [Joshua Lambert](https://github.com/joshwlambert), [Andree Valle-Campos](https://github.com/avallecam), [James Mba Azam](https://github.com/jamesmbaazam), and [Diana Fajardo Pulido](https://github.com/DianaClemencia/DianaClemencia) <!-- and external advisors \[insert names of external advisors\] to ensure it remains inclusive, clear, and effective. -->
```

**We do not tolerate harassment in any form.** Adherence to our Code of Conduct requires refraining from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech, including but not limited to:

Harassment and/or discrimination:

* Offensive comments or actions related to gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, disability, appearance, nationality, religion, socioeconomic status, or technology choices.  
* Deliberate misgendering or use of ‘dead’ names.  
* Use of sexual or discriminatory imagery, comments, or jokes.  
* Unwanted sexual attention or repeated, inappropriate requests for contact.

Abuse, intimidation and threats:

* Stalking, persistent unwanted communication, or tracking online activity.  
* Threats of violence, self-harm encouragement, or incitement to harm others.  
* Disrupting discussions, events, or online conversations.  
* Non-consensual sharing of private messages or recordings.

Unwanted contact and privacy violations:

* Unwanted photography, recording, or personal information sharing.  
* Inappropriate physical or simulated contact (e.g., non-consensual touching, emojis).  
* Pressuring or assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy.

> Our priorities in enforcement  

Author: ```suggestion
**Our priorities in enforcement**  
```
